>> Paul DeBettignies: And so part of her
by the way, for those who are self taught
in your education section and by the way,
would I add front end masters to week
beginner boot camp in my education
section of my LinkedIn profile?
Yes.
Absolutely.
If you're taking online
courses absolutely and yes.
>> Speaker 2: What
are companies looking for
in self learners as we
don't have a CS degree?
>> Paul DeBettignies: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: What would
companies consider,
what would they be looking for
when considering?
>> Paul DeBettignies: Usually it's
going to be things like and so
what we'll take a pause and LinkedIn part
because I'm guessing this is going to
be a majority of the people who are trying
to be able to figure out how do we tell
an employer why they should hire me, but I
didn't go to Stanford University Minnesota
or University Wisconsin or
didn't go to a cool school in London.
Right.
The idea is this, is that self learning
is actually many people industry will
consider self learning to be harder.
You are actually the one who's going
on figuring out the curriculum.
You're the one learning
this stuff on your own.
You're the one.
You just have to be able to say I wanna
learn technology because I wanna go do
these things.
And I wouldn't just say you want
to make the world a better place.
Like what's the one part of your world
that you want to make a better place?
Okay, so employers are looking for
those who have learned something.
They put it on GitHub.
There are now three, they can show,
kind of like going back to your website.
It used to be this, now it's this, and
this is what I'm going to work on for
my next feature.
I wanna know that you're taking the stuff
that you're learning online and
what you've actually done with it.
Like it can be a really rudimentary
app in the beginning, that's okay.
But then you added four more features,
and I can look at GitHub and
I can see what you did and
it's on your portfolio on your website.
And now you're telling me a story.
And that's one of the themes
that will happen and
we get a little bit further into this.
Again, I'm an introvert but
I have gotten fairly well to learn
how to tell my story this is who I'm, this
is what I do, this is why I'm doing it.
As a quick side note,
I started recruiting 21 years ago so
last year when it was 20 years my
non recruiter friends were like Paul
that's amazing way to go, yay rah rah.
My recruiter friends like why the hell
are you still doing this after 20 years
people are crazy.
Like, yes you are.
But the idea is this is that when I tell
people that I actually really like to hear
people's stories, I want to figure
out how to help companies grow teams.
And I want to figure out for job seekers
what it is that they're looking for, and
put them in the right role for them.
People go,
now I understand why you're doing this.
>> Speaker 2: I would just add
that it seems like the current
atmosphere is less about what
college did you come from.
>> Paul DeBettignies: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: In the past it would be like
a hard requirement.
But it seems like if people see that
you've actually built something
that takes away the education question.
>> Paul DeBettignies: So
this is the part about proving it.
And this why your website,
getting your domain name,
showing these updates on LinkedIn matter.
Show people what you've done.
I created this thing, we went from here,
to here, to here, to here, okay?
I now know you wanna learn.
You're motivated.
You can pick up new technologies quickly.
Has now wiped out 80% of the objection
if you don't have a college degree.
Okay.
So for a long time on the west coast in
the valley right it was if you didn't have
a degree from like 17 institutions you
were hosed, you were not going to be.
They've actually now proven that
in many cases it doesn't matter.
You may have a better network you may have
learned from a couple of professors that
taught internet of things
better than you get.
There are some advantages, but
not the way it used to be perceived.
Here's the other thing
about self learning.
Whether you're self learner and your
learning here from [INAUDIBLE] masters and
you're learning from other courses online.
You can't stop learning.
There's one thing I can
say to you right now.
Don't stop.
Don't stop learning
the next thing here is why?
How long ago did iOS
code get written Mark,
do you know off the top of your head?
Call it.
>> Mark: 2010.
>> Paul DeBettignies: So eight years.
So this is how I used to do it.
I used to have a blackberry
now I have one of these.
I need a new one of these by the way,
this one's about three years old now.
The idea is this is it,
there's gonna always be a next thing.
Right?
There's gonna be a new thing that's
going to change our world.
You never stop learning.
Okay, so just commit I would say to
you raise your right hand now and
do it all over again, but
I won't make you like take an oath again.